Hey everybody, welcome back to Boost
Your Income with Bootstrap to WordPress.
This lecture is called Installing
Free Icon Fonts with Font Awesome.
[MUSIC]
Okay, so in this lecture, we're gonna
install something called Font Awesome.
If you don't know what Font Awesome is,
it is a font that let's you use icons.
So your icons are vectors so they
are not blurry like bitmap graphics or
actually vectors.
So this is the Font Website.
Fontawesome.io and you can scroll through
and check it out, if you'd like, but
we're gonna only be using
a couple of these icons.
But basically, you can see here, we have
a whole bunch of icons that you can use in
your websites and your web
applications and they're fonts, so
they are infinitely scalable and they'll
always look sexy on your websites or
on your global applications or
whatever you use them for.
So to go ahead and download those,
you can head to the home page here and
hit Download.
The version that I'm downloading is 4.2.0.
And just to show you here, in your course
files folder that you have downloaded
awhile back, in the assets here of
the Final static website, assets.
If you go to CSS, you'll see a folder
here called Font Awesome and
then there's a couple folders in there.
That's what we're gonna be installing.
If you wanted you could just drag
this Font Awesome folder right into
your CSS folder in your static website
that you're building right now.
But, what you might wanna try doing is
just downloading the most recent version.
Remember that I'm using 4.2.0, so
if you every come across any bugs
it's probably because you are using
a more up to date version.
So i'll leave that to you
to do some bug fixes.
Otherwise if you don't want
to go through that hassle,
just make sure you are using 4.2.0.
And I have that version like
I said right here in my
CSS folder of the course files folder.
Okay, so I've downloaded that here.
I'll show you.
Font Awesome zip file,
go ahead and unzip that.
And just for readability sake,
delete the version number.
It just looks a little bit easier on
your eyes 4.2.0 you don't need that.
And in your static site that
you're building right now,
drag that folder into your CSS folder.
So, Font Awesome.
Go ahead and
drag that right in there, cool.
So now you have a few folders in here.
There are a couple of things we
don't actually need less and SCSS.
Those are a couple
CSS languages that we're not gonna
be using right now in this course.
We're just gonna be using CSS and font.
So just go ahead and wipe those out.
All right.
Now we have everything we need.
And we'll need to go
to our code editor and
create a reference to those,
to that folder.
So that we can actually
utilize our icon fonts.
So here it is in our CSS folder,
Font Awesome.
You probably already know how to do this.
Just go ahead and add a link tag here,
href and it is in your assets
folder css/font-awesome.
And you're gonna need to
reference the CSS itself here,
so let's see what that's called.
So there's a CSS and a fonts folder, we
need to make references to both of those.
So we have Font Awesome CSS and min.CSS.
Let's just use min because it
will take less time to load.
Css/font-awesome.min.css, and
let's put a rel attribute there for
stylesheet, cool.
All right, and I'm just gonna put
a HTML comment up here just so
I can know what this is all about.
Font Awesome Icons.
So, yeah, this is all you need to do to
add your reference to your Font Awesome.
There is in the Font Awesome folder,
you can see there's a Fonts folder.
So we might wanna make sure that the CSS
is referencing this Fonts folder
correctly, because
that's why this is here.
Our CSS Is going to look for
this font's folder in order to serve
up those fonts or those icons.
So let's just open our Font Awesome CSS.
All right, so it looks like here
the source URL is looking for fonts.
So we're going up a directory, jumping
down into fonts, Font Awesome web font.
We're here in CSS, we're jumping up
a directory, and then down to fonts.
It looks like this is perfect you
don't need to change this at all.
And again right here we're using min.css
so if you are gonna make any changes,
make sure that you make
changes to the min.css or
if you do it to the CSS compile
it to a minified version.
And just to show you what will be using
those the Font Awesome icon font four.
Right here, these little social icons
Twitter, Facebook and Google Plus.
These are actually icon fonts, they're
not graphics, I didn't use Photoshop or
download them at all.
This is actually, these are fonts,
so if you had your font size really
large those would scale and
you can still see here,
I'm zoomed really disgustingly far in,
these things are still sharp,
that's because they are fonts and
not actually bitmap graphics.
All right.
So that's it for the icon fonts for
installing Font Awesome.
Don't you dare go anywhere,
because in the next lecture I'm going
to show you how to add the type kit and
Google Fonts libraries to your website so
you can use some sexy fonts.
See you there.
[MUSIC]